Add a very rough draft about metadata v3 (#18)
Perl-Toolchain-Gang/toolchain-site: wien-ai.md

or outline AI policies in the `CONTRIBUTING.md` documentation.

There is a need for a document to indicates how authors and contributors use automated tools.
Specifically,we need to outline permissions for
1. data mining (the use and analysis of a distribution's code and documentation);
2. code generation (how the code and documentation is updated);
3. machione contributions (what actions can be automated by the contributors);
4. automated actions (what actions are automated by the maintainers);

We propose outlining metadata that can be added to CPAN `META` files.

This metadata can be used for generating `AI_POLICY.md` documentation.

We can take inspiration from IPTC Data Mining metadata [1] [2] and synthetic media metadata [3].

## Data Mining

This outlines the authors' preference for a distribution can be used by automated systems.

Note that most open source licenses do not specifically prohibit analysis and training.
There is no enforcement mechanism for this preference,
and authors should not expect MetaCPAN to restrict access to specific distributions based on these settings.

It will have the following values:

### indexing

> Indexing is allowwed, by MetaCPAN and search engines.

Reviewer: Allowed should only have one w

Analysis by developers' tools (e.g. extra author and release tests) is allowed.

Analysis by CPAN Maintainers and CPANSec is allowed.
This includes security scanning as well as metric checks such as "Kwalitee".

### analysis

The contents of a distribution can be analysed by code analysis tools.
This includes AI agents that may scan for security vulnerabilities for bugs.

### training

Generate AI training is allowed on the contents of the distribution.

Note that unlike IPTC metadata, the "no data mining" option is not applicable,

> since everuthing is public on CPAN and available to search engines.

Reviewer: everything

## Code Generation

This outlines how automated tools will generate or update the code.

### toolchain

Some documentation or code may be generated by distribution build
tools like ExtUtils::Manifest, Dist::Zilla or Pod::Weaver as part of the normal build process.

No generative AI is used in this process.

### external_sources

> Code is generated or updated from external sources, e.g. the Olsen timezone database for schema.org RDF data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Code is generated or updated from external sources, e.g. the Olson timezone database for schema.org RDF data.
```

> This includes simply copying data files to be used via something like Fire::Share by an otherwise unchanged module.

Reviewer 3: do you mean File::ShareDir?

### machine_generated

Some of the code has been generated by AI agents.

This does not include dynamic methods created via currying, or code

> generated from a template from somehting like Catalyst::Devel. (These count as "toolchain")

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
generated from a template from something like Catalyst::Devel. (These count as "toolchain")
```

## Machine Contributions

## Accept from non-maint

Note that it is up to the maintainers to decide if normally allowed machine-generated contributions are unacceptable.

### human_only

Machine-generated contributions will not be accepted.
This includes contributions cut-and-pasted by a person from another source.

### comments

Agents are allowed to post comments on existing issues or pull requests without human intervention.

### issues

Agents may create issues or submit security vulnerability reports without human intervention.

### pull_requests

Agents may submit PRs without human intervention.

## Automated Actions

### none

No automation.

### comments

Basic scripted actions (e.g. github actions) which may analyse and comment on issues or PRs, also closing w/out merging

### issues

Automated tools can create issues without human intervention.

### pull_requests

Automated tools can create/update PRs, but not merge on their own.

### code_changes

> Automated tools can merge PRs or change code w/out human intervention

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Automated tools can merge PRs or change code without human intervention
```

### release

> Automated tools can create and upload releases w/out human intervention

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Automated tools can create and upload releases without human intervention
```

## Metadata

Sample metadata in pseudo-YAML is below.

The key is `x_automation_policy` for META v2. When META v3 is settled, the initial "x_" would be dropped.

```
x_automation_policy:
  version: 1
  data_mining:

>     - permission: indexing|analysis|training

Reviewer: I don't like this use of pipes to make a string out of something that isn't a string. It smells like a hash (with `true`/`false` values).

Author: Changed to a simplified JSON schema
